your ego the story so far
when mattered in any of us three states
gets hot it's molecules go faster and
take up more space and the solid liquid
or gas expands when matter gets cold its
molecules go slower and take up less
space and the solid liquid or gas
contracts and now measuring temperature
can you tell whether something is hot or
cold okay in that case decide which of
these three bathtubs you'd like to step
into this one which is freezing cold or
this one which is boiling hot or this
one which is neither too hot nor too
cold it's an easy choice isn't it well
go on step into the middle one thing is
just a bit too hot doesn't try the other
foot oh no it feels a bit too cold
well perhaps judging whether something
is hot or cold isn't so easy after all
this is because the human body can only
notice differences in hotness or
coldness how hot or cold something is in
comparison with something else but even
your own feet I can't agree about how
hot or cold the water in the middle
bathtub is there must be a better way to
measure degree of hotness or temperature
as we usually say what do we know about
hotness
well when the temperature of something
goes up its molecules go faster the
molecules in the boiling hot bathwater
are going too fast for comfort and the
molecules in the freezing cold bathwater
are going too slowly for comfort if we
could only make sure that the molecules
in the in between bathwater we're going
at just the right speed for the human
body you can take your bath
but how can we measure their speed
molecules are so tiny we can't even see
them let alone clock how fast they're
going
hmm wait a minute there's something else
we know about hotness but not only
causes a speed-up of molecules but this
speed-up causes matter to expand so we
could measure molecules speed indirectly
by measuring the effect of that speed
the expansion itself and that's exactly
what a sweetie scientist by the name of
Anders Celsius did in 1742 he took a
liquid that expands quite a bit when it
gets hot mercury and poured it into a
little tunnel he then put the tube into
some freezing cold water and the mercury
contracted down to here he decided to
label this freezing point of water zero
degrees Celsius connects he put the tube
into some boiling hot water up to here
he marked this boiling point towards 100
degrees Celsius now he had a means of
measuring the relative speeds of
molecules in other words the relative
temperature or degree of hotness of
things comfortable room temperature is
20 degrees but 30 degrees is a bit too
hot and minus 20 degrees is much too
cold Celsius could even take his own
Challenger and find it to be about 37
degrees which naturally enough is the
ideal temperature for your bathwater
normal body temperature all you have to
do is adjust for water to 37 degrees and
you'll finally be able to take your bath
courtesy Anders Celsius and his hotness
meter or if you prefer the Greek word
for hot knife which is thermos as a
thermos bottle his thermos meter or
thermometer is your bath water at the
right temperature now all my life
that's you taking a shower